Update `Code of conduct for modding and mapping` (#12210)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Rules/Code_of_conduct_for_modding_and_mapping/en.md

## Behaviour and conduct

- **The goal of modding is to help a mapper improve their work.** If you're not interested in helping people, steer clear of the discussion.
- **Consider what you're posting, why you're posting it, and who you're posting it to.** This will ensure your best intentions are conveyed and your post is easy to understand.
- **Be approchable.** Discussions are open to all users. Everyone is welcome to participate, including those who are new to the community. Be patient, understanding, and provide as much explanation as necessary so that everyone can learn and improve more quickly.

> - **Treat others as you wish to be treated.** People are more receptive to kind, helpful suggestions than hostile ones. Stay on topic and keep away from personal attacks, hateful comments, and misplaced jokes to avoid derailing the thread.

Reviewer: Could write `[...] avoid derailing the thread and risking a [silence](/wiki/Silence).` If you did the things mentioned, that could happen.

Author: I guess this is already achieved by the **Report bad behaviour** bulletpoint. The alternative would be to move it or echo it in the introduction with a catch-all sentence along the lines of *"Not adhering to the following code of conduct may result in a silence."*, or something of the sorts.

Author: Will resolve for now. Reports and potential punishments are already covered in the article (See **Report bad behaviour** bulletpoint and the last sentence in the introduction). The article for Silences is covered at the introduction.

## Responding to a mod

- **Treat all suggestions as valid and equally important.** Don't draw hasty conclusions about the validity of a suggestion without properly assessing it.
- **Explain yourself as much as possible.** State what you changed, and if you didn't accept the suggestion for some reason, explain why and what you did instead. This will not only help the modder to learn, but also allow future mods to be tailored to your concept or style.
- **Remain calm.** Say what needs to be said in order to explain yourself and leave it at that. No matter how unhelpful the suggestion was, responding with hostility, sarcasm, etc. will not help the situation.
- **Provide context.** By providing concise explanations on the mods you responded to, you make it easier for future modders, [Beatmap Nominators](/wiki/People/Beatmap_Nominators) (BN), and [Nomination Assessment Team](/wiki/People/Nomination_Assessment_Team) (NAT) to revisit discussions during their checks.

## Further exchange and discussion

> Sometimes, discussions will be drawn-out, and a single mod and response isn't enough to bring all parties to agreement. Perhaps the mapper doesn't agree with a suggestion, and the modder isn't satisfied with their response. Ideally, all discussions should find closure.

Reviewer 2: I think this part can add the part to avoid having the discussion that's too long without finding any closure.

something like "Ideally, all discussions should find closure within reasonable amount of time.

Author: https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/12210/commits/53eee0be91ce576f41a0eaba389ee300b836c7bc The latest change should comply with this suggestion.

- **Treat others as you wish to be treated.** People are more receptive to kind, helpful suggestions than hostile ones. Stay on topic and keep away from personal attacks, hateful comments, and misplaced jokes to avoid derailing the thread.
- **Use the [discussion page](/wiki/Beatmap_discussion).** Discuss your suggestions with other community members. Otherwise, it is unlikely your concerns will be heard by anyone with the power to address them appropriately.

## Responding to a mod

- **Treat all suggestions as valid and equally important.** Don't draw hasty conclusions about the validity of a suggestion without properly assessing it.
- **Explain yourself as much as possible.** State what you changed, and if you didn't accept the suggestion for some reason, explain why and what you did instead. This will not only help the modder to learn, but also allow future mods to be tailored to your concept or style.
- **Remain calm.** Say what needs to be said in order to explain yourself and leave it at that. No matter how unhelpful the suggestion was, responding with hostility, sarcasm, etc. will not help the situation.

> - **Provide context.** By providing concise explanations on the mods you responded to, you make it easier for future modders, [Beatmap Nominators](/wiki/People/Beatmap_Nominators), and [Nomination Assessment Team](/wiki/People/Nomination_Assessment_Team) to revisit discussions during their checks.

Reviewer 3: I hope this doesn't come as nitpicky. 

Considering that you have abbreviated Beatmap Nominator and Nomination Assessment Team in line 28 wouldn't it be good to add the abbreviations here as the original article has it? Just for the sake of "this has been seen so we know what it means" type of reading.

```suggestion
- **Provide context.** By providing concise explanations on the mods you responded to, you make it easier for future modders, [Beatmap Nominators](/wiki/People/Beatmap_Nominators) (BN), and [Nomination Assessment Team](/wiki/People/Nomination_Assessment_Team) (NAT) to revisit discussions during their checks.
```

Reviewer 4: Definitely would be suitable to add the abbreviations in as that is what the modders see on the discussion page on NATs and BNs

## Behaviour and conduct

> - **The goal of modding is to help a mapper improve their work.** If you're not interested in helping people, steer clear of the discussion.

Reviewer 5: the first sentence is good but I feel like the second is oddly hostile toward people who would be in a map discussion that aren't necessarily there to help mod. especially when the map is going for ranked, there's a whole separate conversation about whether the map should be ranked, irrespective of improvements that would typically come through modding

Reviewer: Should also have some kind of exception for moderation-related posts like "This BG might not follow the VCC" or "This song might be too political".

Author: I believe this the same sentence from the current Code of Conduct, word for word. I do not know however when should people be allowed in a discussion when they're *not* in the mindset of helping people out or holding a healthy discussion. These discussions occur yeah, but if they do people should always keep in mind they're doing it on the basis of helping a mapper's work, not to trash talk it into oblivion without giving any pointers on how to improve it.

Maybe it could be reworded as to not exclusively allow modding, but rather a general guideline meant to encourage healthy discussions, and discourage those who aren't interested in behaving.

> Should also have some kind of exception for moderation-related posts like "This BG might not follow the VCC" or "This song might be too political".

I'm a bit lost, what is this exception supposed to mean? Either way, moderation posts are meant to be done by the GMT and NAT. Users are encouraged to report these issues to them, who will then be discussed and handled by the usergroups respectively. Feels out of scope to include for that reason imo.

Reviewer: Regular users can absolutely make moderation-related posts as well as reports - I've done that more than once.

Author: Made one small change to potentially tackle the issue. The discussion isn't exclusive for modding that's true. This should better encompass that if a discussion of any kind is to be taken place, it should be expected to be done in good faith.

Reviewer 5: i guess that's fine after the edit. my point was that posting in good faith and trying to help the game overall in some way doesn't always imply modding / helping the mapper improve one map.

- **Treat others as you wish to be treated.** People are more receptive to kind, helpful suggestions than hostile ones. Stay on topic and keep away from personal attacks, hateful comments, and misplaced jokes to avoid derailing the thread.
- **Use the [discussion page](/wiki/Beatmap_discussion).** Discuss your suggestions with other community members. Otherwise, it is unlikely your concerns will be heard by anyone with the power to address them appropriately.

## Responding to a mod

It is a mapper's responsibility to keep up with the latest discussions in their beatmaps. Ignoring suggestions or not responding to them in a timely manner can discourage other modders from participating in the discussion.

When responding to someone's suggestions, it is important to consider the following:

- **Treat all suggestions as valid and equally important.** Don't draw hasty conclusions about the validity of a suggestion without properly assessing it.

> - **Explain yourself as much as possible.** State what you changed, and if you didn't accept the suggestion for some reason, explain why and what you did instead. This will not only help the modder to learn, but also allow future mods to be tailored to your concept or style.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Explain yourself clearly.** State what you changed, and if you didn't accept the suggestion for some reason, explain why and what you did instead. This will not only help the modder to learn, but also allow future mods to be tailored to your concept or style.
```
"as much as possible" feels like it's encouraging long posts when that's not really the point (or at least that's one way to easily misread it)

- **Remain calm.** Say what needs to be said in order to explain yourself and leave it at that. No matter how unhelpful the suggestion was, responding with hostility, sarcasm, etc. will not help the situation.

> - **Provide context.** By providing concise explanations on the mods you responded to, you make it easier for future modders, [Beatmap Nominators](/wiki/People/Beatmap_Nominators) (BN), and [Nomination Assessment Team](/wiki/People/Nomination_Assessment_Team) (NAT) to revisit discussions during their checks.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Provide context.** By providing all relevant information in your responses to mods, you make it easier for future modders to understand the discussion.
```
first part: correction to follow from "provide context" -- which has nothing to do with "concise explanation"
second part: imo no need to mention BN/NAT and check system and everything, just the main point is fine

Reviewer: Agree with the generalization idea.

## Further exchange and discussion

> Sometimes, discussions will be drawn-out, and a single mod and response isn't enough to bring all parties to agreement. Perhaps the mapper doesn't agree with a suggestion, and the modder isn't satisfied with their response. Ideally, all discussions should find closure within a reasonable timeframe.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Sometimes, discussions will be drawn out, and a single mod and response isn't enough to bring all parties to an agreement. Perhaps the mapper doesn't agree with a suggestion, and the modder isn't satisfied with their response. Ideally, all discussions should find closure within a reasonable timeframe.
```

Reviewer: Seem like valid corrections.

Consider the following guidelines when an agreement cannot be reached:

- **Ask if you're unsure about something.** Ask the person in question to explain what they meant. They should be more than willing to explain things to you in more detail.

> - **Ask someone with more experience, such as a member of [BN](/wiki/People/Beatmap_Nominators) or [NAT](/wiki/People/Nomination_Assessment_Team).** While they are busy people, they should be able to help you reach an agreement.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Ask someone with more experience, such as a member of the [BN](/wiki/People/Beatmap_Nominators) or [NAT](/wiki/People/Nomination_Assessment_Team).** While they are busy people, they should be able to help you reach an agreement.
```

- **Be open minded.** If you realise there's a more suitable alternative to something you originally suggested, don't be afraid of putting your pride aside.

> - **There are no wrong opinions** — it's up to the mapper and modders to come to an agreement in a civil manner. Try to understand alternative points of view rather than attack them, as you never know when it might be useful in the future.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **There are no wrong opinions.** It's up to the mapper and modders to come to an agreement in a civil manner. Try to understand alternative points of view rather than attack them.
```
last part felt like fluff

Reviewer: Agree.

> - **There are no wrong opinions** — it's up to the mapper and modders to come to an agreement in a civil manner. Try to understand alternative points of view rather than attack them, as you never know when it might be useful in the future.

Reviewer 5: this has a very similar message to the point above it, feel like they could be combined

Reviewer: Agree.

Author: Merged

> - **Take a break.** It is important to be at a right state of mind when discussing something. If you can't explain something through logic, you will not be able to explain it to them through violence either.

Reviewer 5: first sentence more like "take a break [if the discussion is getting heated]" or better words idk
on its own, "take a break" feels kinda random because this obviously wouldn't help reach an agreement if there's no good reason to be taking a break lol

Author: Tried to be short and concise with that one. Second part of the review should tackle this.

## Behaviour and conduct

- **The goal of modding is to help a mapper improve their work.** If you're not interested in helping people, steer clear of the discussion.

> - **Consider what you're posting, why you're posting it, and who you're posting it to.** This will ensure your best intentions are conveyed and your post is easy to understand.

Author: Hmm, imo putting it more directly and bluntly is exactly what we want. We want users, especially those less experienced, to know at face value what the conduct expectation should be. Putting it in a more roundabout way as suggested may not get the intended effect and leave users equally confused.

> - **Consider what you're posting, why you're posting it, and who you're posting it to.** This will ensure your best intentions are conveyed and your post is easy to understand.

Reviewer 6: i think it's quite the opposite honestly, i don't see how it's more roundabout to specify _why_ it's good to consider these things and i don't think any information was lost

> - **Consider what you're posting, why you're posting it, and who you're posting it to.** This will ensure your best intentions are conveyed and your post is easy to understand.

Author: Ultimately I'm indifferent, so I'll let others chime in. Though the current wording seemed to get the point across more directly (Consider X, Y, and Z. This achieves X, Y, and Z), that is why I felt the proposed wording felt less direct for what is basically achieving the same thing.

> - **Consider what you're posting, why you're posting it, and who you're posting it to.** This will ensure your best intentions are conveyed and your post is easy to understand.

Reviewer: I disagree with cyndifusic's proposal because the more clear wording works better as an explanation. cyndifusic's wording is harder to understand IMO, which goes against the standard that wiki pages shouldn't be hard to read.

> - **Consider what you're posting, why you're posting it, and who you're posting it to.** This will ensure your best intentions are conveyed and your post is easy to understand.

Author: Will resolve for the time being then, keeping the blunter wording. Feel free to reopen if anyone thinks the opposite.

  - **Don't shy away from new mappers and modders** — these people are the ones who can benefit the most from your input! Be patient, understanding, and provide as much explanation as possible so that they can learn and improve more quickly

>   - **If you're new yourself, don't be afraid to say so!** This will allow more experienced community members to point you in the right direction. Everyone was new and in your position once!

Reviewer 5: I'm not sure if these two subpoints really belong in code of conduct, it feels more like personal/opinionated advice to me at least. helping new people fit in takes work that not everyone wants to commit to and I don't see why that would be wrong from the perspective of a community rules document

Author: I was wondering whether leaving them out would be a good idea, decided to maintain them and see what others think.

Personally, either deleting them or adding a general purpose bulletpoint to not antagonize newcoming mappers/modders to discussion could be a nice replacement. I believe having a bulletpoint dedicated to making sure discussions are accessible by any user is important.

Reviewer: These rules are *highly* subjective, and the second point is not even a rule - I think there should be something to protect new mappers/modders; maybe "don't assume new mappers are wrong".

Reviewer 2: I agree with Clayton yeah, These probably shouldn't be in modding CoC articles since community member have the freedom to decide if they want to stick with helping their friends or want to extend their hand for other new members, especially with the amount of commitment needed to do this.

However, i do agree that the CoC should still write something that prevent the older/veteran members of the community to underestimate/disregard the opinion from newer member of community, essentially causes friction to happened.

So in my opinion, you should make changes that revolves around preventing people to treating newer people unfairly in modding discussion instead, in order to be more in line with CoC objective.

Author: The most recent changes added a new bulletpoint specifically catering towards new player approchability. Please give it a look whenever possible.

Reviewer 6: there is _definitely_ a necessity to be understanding of new people even if you don't want to take the time to walk them through stuff, but yeah I think this new wording definitely approaches it in a way more befitting of a rules/guidelines page. looks good

Author: Resolving then, feel free to reopen if more changes are required.

- **Treat others as you wish to be treated.** People are more receptive to kind, helpful suggestions than hostile ones. Stay on topic and keep away from personal attacks, hateful comments, and misplaced jokes to avoid derailing the thread.
- **Use the [discussion page](/wiki/Beatmap_discussion).** Discuss your suggestions with other community members. Otherwise, it is unlikely your concerns will be heard by anyone with the power to address them appropriately.

> ## Responding to a mod

Author: Hmm, sure. I do still think the point brought up in the intro is important (mods finding closure). Will probably add as the first bulletpoint into the list to emphasize the importance of it.

> ## Responding to a mod

Author: Actually, scrap that. I believe it can be deleted. Points 2 and 4 should get that idea across.

It's necessary to give a proper response to a mod post. Not only will it make it easier for future mods to be tailored to your concept or style, but it will also help the modder improve their modding ability.

In order for this exchange to be productive, it is important to consider the following:

- **Treat all suggestions as valid and equally important.** Don't draw hasty conclusions about the validity of a suggestion without properly assessing it.

> - **Explain yourself as much as possible.** State what you changed, and if you didn't accept the suggestion for some reason, explain why and what you did instead.

Author: Indifferent. Waiting for more opinions.

> - **Explain yourself as much as possible.** State what you changed, and if you didn't accept the suggestion for some reason, explain why and what you did instead.

Reviewer: Agree with cyndifusic.

> - **Explain yourself as much as possible.** State what you changed, and if you didn't accept the suggestion for some reason, explain why and what you did instead.

Author: Resolved in the latest commit

> - **Remain calm and professional.** Say what needs to be said in order to explain yourself and leave it at that. No matter how unhelpful the suggestion was, responding with hostility, sarcasm, etc. will not help the situation.

Reviewer 5: "professional" probably isn't the right word (too easy to mistake as "serious" or anti-fun imo), the message is good though. actually considering what the rest of this line explains, I think just "Remain calm." or similarly "Avoid escalating" or something like this would be fine.

Author: Good point. *Remain calm* by itself sounds a bit dry, but the purpose of the first bolded sentences was to be concise and descriptive, so I see the value in just getting rid of it.

- **Provide context.** By providing concise explanations on the mods you responded to, you make it easier for future modders, [Beatmap Nominators](/wiki/People/Beatmap_Nominators), and [Nomination Assessment Team](/wiki/People/Nomination_Assessment_Team) to revisit discussions during their checks.

## Further exchange and discussion

Sometimes, discussions will be drawn-out, and a single mod and response isn't enough to bring all parties to agreement. Perhaps the mapper doesn't agree with a suggestion, and the modder isn't satisfied with their response. Ideally, all discussions should find closure.

> Consider exploring the following solutions when an agreement cannot be reached:

Author: For the first one, something more in the lines of `Agree to disagree`, `Acknowledge your mistakes`, `Be open minded` (I think the last one is the best of the three suggested).

Second one, I'd argue that's something important enough to lead the bulletpoint. What other ways would you suggest so it still retains that same meaning?

Last one imo feels suitable. Last point should be the very last resort. If it's not here however, somewhere in the article should mention how and where to report misbehaviour. Was originally thinking of placing at the intro, which I scrapped into moving it here.

> Consider exploring the following solutions when an agreement cannot be reached:

Reviewer 5: I mean that the line I commented on doesn't semantically lead in to the bullet points. like, "there is no wrong opinions" for example is not a "solution"

> Consider exploring the following solutions when an agreement cannot be reached:

Author: Ah, thought you meant the individual bolded points. Unsure what a good synonym of solutions would be for this context. Something like:
```suggestion
Consider the following guidelines when an agreement cannot be reached:
```

`Solutions` to `Guidelines`, maybe `Recommendations` or `Suggestions`?

> Consider exploring the following solutions when an agreement cannot be reached:

Reviewer 4: Personally see that as logical for that line, would roll with it

> Consider exploring the following solutions when an agreement cannot be reached:

Author: Kept the new intro point commented in https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/12210#discussion_r1773822969 and applied the small rewording on the sentence leading to the list.
